## Introduction

This is a sample Jenkins plugin project to show the Gradle configuration for releasing to the ToolSpring Plugin Center, a private Maven repository. The plugin is a skeleton: example Jenkins build step, generated by Maven Archetype plugin.

The files and directory structure are based on boilerplate generated by the `gradle init` command.

## Getting started

The Gradle `publish` task requires your ToolSpring credentials for authenticating to the ToolSpring Plugin Center. The file **gradle.properties** defines several project properties, including the credentials properties listed below. Edit this file and assign your credentials to these properties:

- `toolspringUserName`
- `toolspringPassword`

**Important:**

Secrets like your ToolSpring login credentials should not normally be stored in a version control repository. The file **gradle.properties** is here for illustration only. A more typical option is the Gradle user properties file in one of the locations below:

| Operating System | Path |
| - | - |
| Linux | ~/.gradle/gradle.properties |
| Windows | %USER_PROFILE%\\.gradle\\gradle.properties |

The project properties are used in the script file **build.gradle**. Edit this file to customize the configuration for your Jenkins plugin. Then execute the command below to build and release your plugin.

| Operating System/Console | Command |
| - | - |
| Linux | ./gradlew --info jpi publish |
| Windows PowerShell | .\\\gradlew --info jpi publish |
| Windows Command Prompt | gradlew --info jpi publish |

## References

For more information see:

- [Releasing a Commercial Plugin](https://toolspring.com/support/articles/publishers/publishers-jenkins/release-plugin-jenkins/)
- [Gradle JPI plugin](https://github.com/jenkinsci/gradle-jpi-plugin)
